core/src/components/modal/readme.md, before:

# ion-modal

A Modal is a dialog that appears on top of the app's content, and must be dismissed by the app before interaction can resume. It is useful as a select component when there are a lot of options to choose from, or when filtering items in a list, as well as many other use cases.


### Creating

Modals can be created using a [Modal Controller](../modal-controller). They can be customized by passing modal options in the modal controller's create method.


### Passing paramaters

When a modal is created, paramaters might be passed to the newly created modal:

```ts
// Create a modal using MyModalComponent with some initial data
const modal = await modalController.create({
  component: MyModalComponent,
  componentProps: {
    'prop1': value,
    'prop2': value2
  }
});
```

Under the hood, the controller creates a new `ion-modal` and attaches the specified component to it.
It also assigns the specified `componentProps` to the component's instance:

```js
// pseudo-code
const instance = create(MyModalComponent);
instance.prop1 = value;
instance.prop2 = value2;
```

This way, your component can access the passed params, check the "Usage" section for further code example for each frameworks.


### Returning data

Modals can also return data back to the controller when they are dismissed.

```js
const modal = await modalController.create({...});
const { data } = await modal.onDidDismiss();
console.log(data);
```

```js
// Dismiss the top modal returning some data object
modalController.dismiss({
  'result': value
})
```


<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Usage

### Angular

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { ModalController } from '@ionic/angular';
import { ModalPage } from '../modal/modal.page';
@Component({
  selector: 'modal-example',
  templateUrl: 'modal-example.html',
  styleUrls: ['./modal-example.css']
})
export class ModalExample {
  constructor(public modalController: ModalController) {}

  async presentModal() {
    const modal = await this.modalController.create({
      component: ModalPage,
      componentProps: { value: 123 }
    });
    return await modal.present();
  }
}
```

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NavParams } from '@ionic/angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'modal-page',
})
export class ModalExample {

  // "value" passed in componentProps
  @Input() value: number;

  constructor(navParams: NavParams) {
    // componentProps can also be accessed at construction time using NavParams
  }

}
```


### Javascript

```html
<body>
  <ion-modal-controller></ion-modal-controller>
</body>
```

```javascript
customElements.define('modal-page', class extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    this.innerHTML = `
<ion-header>
  <ion-toolbar>
    <ion-title>Super Modal</ion-title>
  </ion-toolbar>
</ion-header>
<ion-content>
  Content
</ion-content>`;
  }
});

async function presentModal() {
  // initialize controller
  const modalController = document.querySelector('ion-modal-controller');
  await modalController.componentOnReady();

  // present the modal
  const modalElement = await modalController.create({
    component: 'modal-page'
  });
  await modalElement.present();
}
```


### React

```tsx
import React, { Component } from 'react'
import { IonModal } from '@ionic/react';

type Props = {}
type State = {
  showModal: boolean
}

export class ModalExample extends Component<Props, State> {

  constructor(props: Props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      showModal: false
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <IonModal
        isOpen={this.state.showModal}
        onDidDismiss={() => this.setState(() => ({ showModal: false }))}
      >
        <p>This is modal content</p>
        <IonButton onClick={() => this.setState(() => ({ showModal: false }))}>
          Close Modal
        </IonButton>
      </IonModal>
    );
  }
}

```


### Vue

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <ion-header>
      <ion-toolbar>
        <ion-title>{{ title }}</ion-title>
      </ion-toolbar>
    </ion-header>
    <ion-content padding>
      {{ content }}
    </ion-content>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'Modal',
  props: {
    title: { type: String, default: 'Super Modal' },
  },
  data() {
    return {
      content: 'Content',
    }
  },
}
</script>
```

```html
<template>
  <ion-page class="ion-page" main>
    <ion-content class="ion-content" padding>
      <ion-button @click="openModal">Open Modal</ion-button>
    </ion-content>
  </ion-page>
</template>

<script>
import Modal from './modal.vue'

export default {
  methods: {
    openModal() {
      return this.$ionic.modalController
        .create({
          component: Modal,
          componentProps: {
            data: {
              content: 'New Content',
            },
            propsData: {
              title: 'New title',
            },
          },
        })
        .then(m => m.present())
    },
  },
}
</script>
```



## Properties

| Property                 | Attribute          | Description                                                                                                      | Type                                                                                   | Default     |
| ------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `animated`               | `animated`         | If `true`, the modal will animate.                                                                               | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `backdropDismiss`        | `backdrop-dismiss` | If `true`, the modal will be dismissed when the backdrop is clicked.                                             | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `component` _(required)_ | `component`        | The component to display inside of the modal.                                                                    | `Function \| HTMLElement \| null \| string`                                            | `undefined` |
| `componentProps`         | --                 | The data to pass to the modal component.                                                                         | `undefined \| { [key: string]: any; }`                                                 | `undefined` |
| `cssClass`               | `css-class`        | Additional classes to apply for custom CSS. If multiple classes are provided they should be separated by spaces. | `string \| string[] \| undefined`                                                      | `undefined` |
| `enterAnimation`         | --                 | Animation to use when the modal is presented.                                                                    | `((Animation: Animation, baseEl: any, opts?: any) => Promise<Animation>) \| undefined` | `undefined` |
| `keyboardClose`          | `keyboard-close`   | If `true`, the keyboard will be automatically dismissed when the overlay is presented.                           | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `leaveAnimation`         | --                 | Animation to use when the modal is dismissed.                                                                    | `((Animation: Animation, baseEl: any, opts?: any) => Promise<Animation>) \| undefined` | `undefined` |
| `mode`                   | `mode`             | The mode determines which platform styles to use.                                                                | `"ios" \| "md"`                                                                        | `undefined` |
| `showBackdrop`           | `show-backdrop`    | If `true`, a backdrop will be displayed behind the modal.                                                        | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |


## Events

| Event                 | Description                             | Type                              |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `ionModalDidDismiss`  | Emitted after the modal has dismissed.  | `CustomEvent<OverlayEventDetail>` |
| `ionModalDidPresent`  | Emitted after the modal has presented.  | `CustomEvent<void>`               |
| `ionModalWillDismiss` | Emitted before the modal has dismissed. | `CustomEvent<OverlayEventDetail>` |
| `ionModalWillPresent` | Emitted before the modal has presented. | `CustomEvent<void>`               |


## Methods

### `dismiss(data?: any, role?: string | undefined) => Promise<boolean>`

Dismiss the modal overlay after it has been presented.

#### Parameters

| Name   | Type                  | Description |
| ------ | --------------------- | ----------- |
| `data` | `any`                 |             |
| `role` | `string \| undefined` |             |

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<boolean>`



### `onDidDismiss() => Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`

Returns a promise that resolves when the modal did dismiss.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`



### `onWillDismiss() => Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`

Returns a promise that resolves when the modal will dismiss.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`



### `present() => Promise<void>`

Present the modal overlay after it has been created.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




## CSS Custom Properties

| Name              | Description                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `--background`    | Background of the modal content    |
| `--border-color`  | Border color of the modal content  |
| `--border-radius` | Border radius of the modal content |
| `--border-style`  | Border style of the modal content  |
| `--border-width`  | Border width of the modal content  |
| `--height`        | Height of the modal                |
| `--max-height`    | Maximum height of the modal        |
| `--max-width`     | Maximum width of the modal         |
| `--min-height`    | Minimum height of the modal        |
| `--min-width`     | Minimum width of the modal         |
| `--width`         | Width of the modal                 |


----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

docs(modal): add lazy loading usage

core/src/components/modal/readme.md, after:

# ion-modal

A Modal is a dialog that appears on top of the app's content, and must be dismissed by the app before interaction can resume. It is useful as a select component when there are a lot of options to choose from, or when filtering items in a list, as well as many other use cases.


### Creating

Modals can be created using a [Modal Controller](../modal-controller). They can be customized by passing modal options in the modal controller's create method.


### Passing paramaters

When a modal is created, paramaters might be passed to the newly created modal:

```ts
// Create a modal using MyModalComponent with some initial data
const modal = await modalController.create({
  component: MyModalComponent,
  componentProps: {
    'prop1': value,
    'prop2': value2
  }
});
```

Under the hood, the controller creates a new `ion-modal` and attaches the specified component to it.
It also assigns the specified `componentProps` to the component's instance:

```js
// pseudo-code
const instance = create(MyModalComponent);
instance.prop1 = value;
instance.prop2 = value2;
```

This way, your component can access the passed params, check the "Usage" section for further code example for each frameworks.


### Returning data

Modals can also return data back to the controller when they are dismissed.

```js
const modal = await modalController.create({...});
const { data } = await modal.onDidDismiss();
console.log(data);
```

```js
// Dismiss the top modal returning some data object
modalController.dismiss({
  'result': value
})
```

### Lazy Loading

When lazy loading a modal, it's important to note that the modal will not be loaded when it is opened, but rather when the module that imports the modal's module is loaded.

For example, say there exists a `CalendarComponent` and an `EventModal`. The modal is presented by clicking a button in the `CalendarComponent`. In Angular, the `EventModalModule` would need to be included in the `CalendarComponentModule` since the modal is created in the `CalendarComponent`:

```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';
import { IonicModule } from '@ionic/angular';

import { CalendarComponent } from './calendar.component';
import { EventModalModule } from '../modals/event/event.module';

@NgModule({
    declarations: [
        CalendarComponent
    ],
    imports: [
      IonicModule,
      CommonModule,
      EventModalModule
    ],
    exports: [
      CalendarComponent
    ]
})

export class CalendarComponentModule {}
```

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Usage

### Angular

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { ModalController } from '@ionic/angular';
import { ModalPage } from '../modal/modal.page';
@Component({
  selector: 'modal-example',
  templateUrl: 'modal-example.html',
  styleUrls: ['./modal-example.css']
})
export class ModalExample {
  constructor(public modalController: ModalController) {}

  async presentModal() {
    const modal = await this.modalController.create({
      component: ModalPage,
      componentProps: { value: 123 }
    });
    return await modal.present();
  }
}
```

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NavParams } from '@ionic/angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'modal-page',
})
export class ModalExample {

  // "value" passed in componentProps
  @Input() value: number;

  constructor(navParams: NavParams) {
    // componentProps can also be accessed at construction time using NavParams
  }

}
```


### Javascript

```html
<body>
  <ion-modal-controller></ion-modal-controller>
</body>
```

```javascript
customElements.define('modal-page', class extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    this.innerHTML = `
<ion-header>
  <ion-toolbar>
    <ion-title>Super Modal</ion-title>
  </ion-toolbar>
</ion-header>
<ion-content>
  Content
</ion-content>`;
  }
});

async function presentModal() {
  // initialize controller
  const modalController = document.querySelector('ion-modal-controller');
  await modalController.componentOnReady();

  // present the modal
  const modalElement = await modalController.create({
    component: 'modal-page'
  });
  await modalElement.present();
}
```


### React

```tsx
import React, { Component } from 'react'
import { IonModal } from '@ionic/react';

type Props = {}
type State = {
  showModal: boolean
}

export class ModalExample extends Component<Props, State> {

  constructor(props: Props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      showModal: false
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <IonModal
        isOpen={this.state.showModal}
        onDidDismiss={() => this.setState(() => ({ showModal: false }))}
      >
        <p>This is modal content</p>
        <IonButton onClick={() => this.setState(() => ({ showModal: false }))}>
          Close Modal
        </IonButton>
      </IonModal>
    );
  }
}

```


### Vue

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <ion-header>
      <ion-toolbar>
        <ion-title>{{ title }}</ion-title>
      </ion-toolbar>
    </ion-header>
    <ion-content padding>
      {{ content }}
    </ion-content>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'Modal',
  props: {
    title: { type: String, default: 'Super Modal' },
  },
  data() {
    return {
      content: 'Content',
    }
  },
}
</script>
```

```html
<template>
  <ion-page class="ion-page" main>
    <ion-content class="ion-content" padding>
      <ion-button @click="openModal">Open Modal</ion-button>
    </ion-content>
  </ion-page>
</template>

<script>
import Modal from './modal.vue'

export default {
  methods: {
    openModal() {
      return this.$ionic.modalController
        .create({
          component: Modal,
          componentProps: {
            data: {
              content: 'New Content',
            },
            propsData: {
              title: 'New title',
            },
          },
        })
        .then(m => m.present())
    },
  },
}
</script>
```



## Properties

| Property                 | Attribute          | Description                                                                                                      | Type                                                                                   | Default     |
| ------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `animated`               | `animated`         | If `true`, the modal will animate.                                                                               | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `backdropDismiss`        | `backdrop-dismiss` | If `true`, the modal will be dismissed when the backdrop is clicked.                                             | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `component` _(required)_ | `component`        | The component to display inside of the modal.                                                                    | `Function \| HTMLElement \| null \| string`                                            | `undefined` |
| `componentProps`         | --                 | The data to pass to the modal component.                                                                         | `undefined \| { [key: string]: any; }`                                                 | `undefined` |
| `cssClass`               | `css-class`        | Additional classes to apply for custom CSS. If multiple classes are provided they should be separated by spaces. | `string \| string[] \| undefined`                                                      | `undefined` |
| `enterAnimation`         | --                 | Animation to use when the modal is presented.                                                                    | `((Animation: Animation, baseEl: any, opts?: any) => Promise<Animation>) \| undefined` | `undefined` |
| `keyboardClose`          | `keyboard-close`   | If `true`, the keyboard will be automatically dismissed when the overlay is presented.                           | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |
| `leaveAnimation`         | --                 | Animation to use when the modal is dismissed.                                                                    | `((Animation: Animation, baseEl: any, opts?: any) => Promise<Animation>) \| undefined` | `undefined` |
| `mode`                   | `mode`             | The mode determines which platform styles to use.                                                                | `"ios" \| "md"`                                                                        | `undefined` |
| `showBackdrop`           | `show-backdrop`    | If `true`, a backdrop will be displayed behind the modal.                                                        | `boolean`                                                                              | `true`      |


## Events

| Event                 | Description                             | Type                              |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `ionModalDidDismiss`  | Emitted after the modal has dismissed.  | `CustomEvent<OverlayEventDetail>` |
| `ionModalDidPresent`  | Emitted after the modal has presented.  | `CustomEvent<void>`               |
| `ionModalWillDismiss` | Emitted before the modal has dismissed. | `CustomEvent<OverlayEventDetail>` |
| `ionModalWillPresent` | Emitted before the modal has presented. | `CustomEvent<void>`               |


## Methods

### `dismiss(data?: any, role?: string | undefined) => Promise<boolean>`

Dismiss the modal overlay after it has been presented.

#### Parameters

| Name   | Type                  | Description |
| ------ | --------------------- | ----------- |
| `data` | `any`                 |             |
| `role` | `string \| undefined` |             |

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<boolean>`



### `onDidDismiss() => Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`

Returns a promise that resolves when the modal did dismiss.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`



### `onWillDismiss() => Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`

Returns a promise that resolves when the modal will dismiss.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<OverlayEventDetail<any>>`



### `present() => Promise<void>`

Present the modal overlay after it has been created.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




## CSS Custom Properties

| Name              | Description                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `--background`    | Background of the modal content    |
| `--border-color`  | Border color of the modal content  |
| `--border-radius` | Border radius of the modal content |
| `--border-style`  | Border style of the modal content  |
| `--border-width`  | Border width of the modal content  |
| `--height`        | Height of the modal                |
| `--max-height`    | Maximum height of the modal        |
| `--max-width`     | Maximum width of the modal         |
| `--min-height`    | Minimum height of the modal        |
| `--min-width`     | Minimum width of the modal         |
| `--width`         | Width of the modal                 |


----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
